---
layout: name

title: Info
section: Info
left: left-codes
top: Direct Stupid

---
About
--------
I have a Ph.D. in applied chemistry at Dalian University of Technology. My Ph.D. work focused on artificial photosynthesis through biomimetic chemical synthesis techniques (Synthesis of functionalized Fe2S2 complexes and their electrochemistry and hydrogen-generating mechanism). To satisfy these needs, also part of my work was the definition and implementation of the experiment.

After receiving my Ph.D. diploma, I have been working as editor about 3 years. Where the major part my work is spent on reviewing, editing, LaTeX and publishing the manuscript. This is competence ability from my interest on the open source and free software. And for these additional ability, there is a part-time job for a journal. I shifted my focus toward scientific programming, and spent a rather large amount of my spare time on developing and contributing to the union of chemistry and open source.

This blog is going to investigate and discuss various ways to use open source
software (and sometimes 'paid for' software) to solve chemical/engineering/technical
problems and then share those results with others. Also, we'll discuss various
topics that might be interesting to engineerings and other people in technical
jobs. I have been struggling with how I stay 'up-to-date' with the latest
techniques for solving chemical/engineering and other technical problems. 

Hence, It seemed like a really cool way to engage the 'wisdom of crowds' and
others who are interested in honing their technical skills and working with
open source software.

Skills
--------
* Unix: OS X 10.4+, Linux 2.4+
* Programming: Python, PHP, C, LaTeX
* Web: HTML, MySQL, Drupal, WordPress
* Tools: VIM, GDB, LaTeX, LAMP, Iptables
* Hardware: x86, PowerPC
* Chemistry: a dry, oxygen-free dinitrogen atmosphere with standard Schlenk techniques
* Writing: Chinese, US-American

Engine behind this Site
-------------
This [website](http://directstupid.net) is created with [Jekyll](http://github.com/mojombo/jekyll), a static website generator written in Ruby. The pages are written in Markdown using Gedit. You can have a look at the source code on GitHub. The template system it uses [Liquid](http://github.com/tobi/liquid). (The syntax-highlighting, is generated by [Pygments](http://pygments.org/), coded in Python)
I push all of these out to my [GitHub repository](http://github.com/hongguang/hongguang.github.com/) using the version control system [git]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git).

